=cut $Id: vbindiff.pod 4625 2005-05-27 15:32:55Z cjm $

=head1 NAME

vbindiff - hexadecimal file display and comparison

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vbindiff> I<file1> [ I<file2> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Visual Binary Diff (VBinDiff) displays files in hexadecimal and ASCII
(or EBCDIC).  It can also display two files at once, and highlight
the differences between them.  Unlike B<diff>, it works well with
large files (up to 4 GB).

=head2 Viewing files

Use the arrow keys to move through the file(s).  The up and down arrow
keys move a line (16 bytes) at a time, and the left and right arrows
move one byte at a time.  The Page Up and Page Down keys move a
screenful at a time.  The Home key moves to the beginning, and the End
key moves to the end.

Normally, both files move together.  To move only the top file, press
C<T>.  To move only the bottom file, press C<B>.  To return to moving
both files, press the same key again.  (The window at the bottom of
the screen will indicate when you are moving only one file.)

The Enter key will advance to the next difference between the files
(after those already displayed on the screen).  If there are no more
differences, it moves to the end.

Press C<G> to go to a given position in the file.  A window will pop
up where you can enter the position (in hexadecimal).  Both files
will move to the same position, unless you are in "move top" or
"move bottom" mode.

Press C<C> to toggle the display between ASCII and EBCDIC.  The
current display mode will be hilighted at the bottom of the screen.

=head2 Editing files

You can press C<E> to edit the current file.  When displaying two
files, this edits the one in the top window, unless you are in "move
bottom" mode.

When editing, you can move the cursor around with the arrow keys.  Use
TAB to switch between entering hexadecimal or ASCII (or EBCDIC)
characters.  Press the Esc when you are done.  You will be given the
choice to save or discard your changes then.

If you are displaying two files, you can use the Enter key to copy a
byte from the other file into the one you are editing.

You cannot scroll through the file while editing, although you can
save your changes and then move to a different part of the file.
Also, you cannot insert or delete bytes, only change them.

=head1 OPTIONS

 -L, --license   Display license information for vbindiff
 -V, --version   Display the version number
     --help      Display help information

=head1 BUGS

Does not work properly with files over 4 gigabytes.  It should be
able to view the first 4 gigabytes ok, but the display only has room
for 8 hex digits of file position, and the Goto box is also limited to
8 digits.

=head1 AUTHOR

Christopher J. Madsen <cjm .at. pobox.com>
